April
Use the “countdown technique” whenever you’re angry today. Before saying or doing anything, count down from twenty to gain a sense of composure.
Clean a room in your home, and as you do this, visualize yourself cleaning your mind of all the anger you feel toward someone.
Think about how your parents (or the people who raised you) processed and responded to anger. Write down anything unhealthy you learned from them and what might be a healthier choice. (The goal is not to blame them for their shortcomings, but to recognize how you formed some of your patterns and what can do to change them.)
Set aside at least ten minutes for aerobic exercise today. Exercising releases endorphins, reduces stress, and works off excess energy—and it’s a great way to release pent-up anger.
Every time you dwell on a hurtful past experience today, put something heavy in your pocket, purse, or backpack. Feel how these items weigh you down, and then, as you remove each one at the end of the day, think, I am letting go of my pain and anger so I can be light and free.
If/when you think a self-victimizing thought today, like Why do bad things always happen to me?, tell yourself something empowering, such as, I may have been hurt in the past, and I have every right to be angry, but I can choose to heal and deal with my anger constructively in the present.
Set aside a few minutes for progressive relaxation today. Lie down, and then starting with your feet, tense and relax each body part, working your way up to your head. Relaxing your muscles will help you release anger from your body and create a sense of inner calm to bring into your interactions.
Write down how you wish other people would respond when angry with you—what they’d say or do, or not say or do. Now make it a goal to act in this way toward others who may anger you today.
Visualize everyone you meet today as a young child who is doing his or her best, making mistakes, and hoping for your understanding and forgiveness. Keep this in mind when choosing how to respond to missteps.
Search YouTube for “Free guided meditation for forgiveness” and choose one to listen to, while sitting comfortably or lying down.
Place this quote by Robert Brault somewhere you’ll see it throughout the day, to help yourself forgive without needing to hear the words I’m sorry: “Life becomes easier when you learn to accept an apology you never got.”
Identify something negative you believe about yourself because of a past mistake for which you’ve struggled to forgive yourself (for example, “I’m a bad person”)—something that is not a fact, even if it may feel like one. Look for one piece of proof to support the opposite belief today. (For example, helping your sister could be proof that you are, in fact, a good person.)
Think of a painful event that led you to feel angry with someone and hesitant to offer forgiveness. Now write down all the ways you may have contributed to this event to help decrease your anger toward the other person.
Label a jar or box with the words Small Stuff. Whenever you’re feeling annoyed by something that isn’t really a big deal, write it on a piece of paper and put it in the box or jar. At the end of the day, shred or burn these as an act of release.
Make “don’t take it personally” your mantra today. If anyone seems excessively angry with you, consider that you merely triggered some deeper pain, and then choose to respond calmly and compassionately.
Communicate to someone why you’re feeling angry, with the intent of reaching an amicable resolution, using “I feel” language. So, instead of saying, “You always cancel last minute,” say, “When you cancel last minute, I feel like I’m not important to you.”
Write “Only Human Card” on an index card and carry it in your purse or pocket. Whenever someone irritates you today, remember they too are only human—they hold the same card—and silently forgive them for whatever they did that bothered you.
Identify something hurtful you’ve done for which you haven’t forgiven yourself. Then apologize to the person you hurt both to ease their pain and to pave the way for self-forgiveness.
Agree to disagree with someone today instead of getting angry and fighting for them to see things your way.
Whenever you’re feeling angry with or threatened by someone today, touch one or two fingers to your lips. According to Rick Hanson, author of Buddha’s Brain, this stimulates your parasympathetic nervous system, which creates a feeling of calm and relaxation and pulls you out of fight-or-flight mode. It will also force you to pause before you react.
Make today a no-sarcasm day. Instead of expressing your anger, frustration, or annoyance sarcastically, be clear and direct.
On a separate piece of paper, write a letter of forgiveness to someone toward whom you’ve felt bitter and angry (to send or to burn as an act of release).
Identify one way you can help others using a lesson you learned from a painful past relationship. Then put it into practice and help someone with this today.
Identify an anger trigger within one of your relationships, and why this particular behavior triggers you in this way. Then identify how you can change this or change your response to it—and do this today.
As an exercise to put things in perspective, go about your day as if you were going to die tomorrow. Whenever you feel angry with someone, ask yourself, Would I want to spend my last day alive dwelling on this?
Identify someone toward whom you’ve felt resentment for not meeting an unexpressed expectation. Share this expectation with them today so they can better understand and meet your need—or they can explain why they can’t.
Imagine that you are the hero in a movie, and all the pain you’ve experienced has helped you grow, and will eventually help you thrive in life. Give that movie a title and write it on a piece of paper to carry in your purse or pocket. Look at this whenever you’re feeling angry or hurt today to remind yourself that you are the hero of your story, not the victim.
Create a sense of safety in an unhealthy relationship by setting a boundary.
Listen to peaceful music in your car and practice deep breathing to help minimize road rage, or identify some other way you can make your drive (or commute) less stressful and more enjoyable.
Share with an unbiased outsider why you’re angry with another person. Then, ask them what they think or see as an impartial observer that may help you let go of your anger and forgive.
