August
Write below the top three things you often judge people for, and why—what you assume about the people who have this trait or habit you’re judging. Then for each, write one reason why your assumption may not be true. Keep these things in mind as you go about your day as a reminder to see people beyond your judgments.
Publicly advocate for someone who others frequently judge.
Identify one thing you fear people might judge you for. Keep an eye out for someone else who has this same struggle today and say something that might make them feel better about this to reinforce to both of you that neither of you deserve to be judged.
Think of something you’ve judged about your former self, and then close your eyes and forgive yourself—your current self—for judging that beautiful person who has always deserved love and was doing the best he or she could.
Identify someone whose past you’ve judged. If they’re willing, ask them to tell you more about this so that you can better understand them and accept where they’ve come from.
Smile and make eye contact with a stranger you’re tempted to judge, and say inside your head, I don’t know your story, but I know you’re a lot like me.
Whenever you’re tempted to judge someone today, practice discernment instead. Through discernment, you’re able to recognize which behaviors you believe are unhealthy, inappropriate, or unethical without looking down on the other person, as you would when judging.
Tell someone who’s angry, sad, frustrated, or stressed, “It’s okay. You’re allowed to feel . . .” to let them know you accept them, regardless of their emotional state, and won’t judge them for feeling down.
Give someone you’ve judged a second chance, either by starting a conversation or inviting them to join you in doing something.
Avoid forming reductionist conclusions today—like “He’s a jerk” or “She’s a moron”—and instead, try to understand people on a deeper level.
Identify one to three of your biggest flaws and write all the ways these have served you well to help you foster greater self-acceptance, in spite of your imperfection.
Ask someone to tell you more about one of their interests, habits, or beliefs that you often judge.
Identify someone in your life you regularly try to change. Now identify one thing you appreciate about them, just as they are—and share this with them.
Choose a loved one you regularly judge. Now do something small but thoughtful to show them you love and care about them, in spite of your judgment.
Spend five minutes people-watching today and mentally compliment everyone you see instead of forming judgments about them.
Identify one behavior or lifestyle choice you regularly judge, then google this and read an article that helps you understand it a little better.
Identify someone who recently made a choice that you’ve judged. Start a friendly conversation about this choice—in person or in an e-mail—both to learn more about why they chose this and to show them you accept them and their choices.
Recognize when you’re about to form a judgment today, then do something to help that person instead of looking down on them.
Identify one thing you’ve been striving to change. Now write this down: “Even though I am working to change ________________, I completely and unconditionally accept myself where I am right now.” Read this several times throughout the day.
Eliminate the word should from your vocabulary today to help you foster greater acceptance and judge others—and yourself—less.
Make this your mantra today: “My way isn’t better; it’s just different. It isn’t right; it’s just right for me.”
Identify one thing you’ve learned from knowing a person whom you regularly judge, even if it’s just an opportunity to practice being open-minded. Share this at tinybuddha.com/love-forums to start a conversation that may help others.
Practice the Japanese art of wabi-sabi, and look for something imperfect but beautiful to place somewhere you’ll see it often. Whenever you look at this, remind yourself that we are all like this item—imperfect, yet unique and beautiful.
Put a quarter in a jar whenever you criticize someone today or think a critical or judgmental thought. At the end of the day, give this money to a homeless person, and choose to view them compassionately, without judgment.
Be antigossip today. Whenever anyone talks about anyone else, change the subject to something positive about that person.
Identify something you often judge in others that you do, as well. Realize that you likely judge your loved one so harshly because you’ve done this, too—and the guiltier you feel about it, the stronger your judgments will be. Now write a short letter to both of you, empathizing with why you both do this, and offering love and acceptance in spite of your imperfections and struggles.
Whenever you think about something you believe someone else should change or do differently, shift the focus back to yourself and identify something you could change or do differently—and act on it.
Fill in the blank: “When I’m striving for perfection, I often treat myself poorly by ________________.” Now identify one positive, self-affirming thing you can do when you feel the instinct to do this, and utilize this when relevant today.
Whenever someone criticizes themselves today, counter that with praise.
Identify one negative, inaccurate thing people could assume about you based on your weakest moment. Bring this to mind whenever you’re tempted to judge others today, and consider that maybe you’re not seeing them, but rather one of their weakest moments.
Identify one physical characteristic that often leads you to form judgments or assumptions about people, whether it’s a hairstyle, a style of dressing, or even a certain ethnicity. Go out of your way to start a conversation with someone who has this physical characteristic today to challenge your assumptions.

