December
Give your greatest gift to someone else today.
Give a friend, coworker, or loved one their favorite item or experience today.
Give an acquaintance your phone number or e-mail address so that you can connect on a deeper level sometime in the future.
Pay someone a compliment on something you believe they’re insecure about to help boost their confidence.
Give yourself a break. Schedule a little time into your day to simply be.
Set aside a jar that you can fill with loose change and eventually donate to a cause or charity that you care about.
Give your time to someone today, whether that means lending an ear, a hand, or a shoulder.
Make “I am worthy” your mantra today, and think this whenever someone offers you anything, whether it’s their seat on the bus, their attention, or their support.
Ask someone directly for what you want instead of hinting at it or giving to them in the hopes of inviting reciprocity.
Identify a relationship in which you give more than you receive, and then ask that person to be there for you in some way today, whether that means lending an ear or offering their greatest skill to help you.
Ask someone to assist with a task you’ve been dreading, both to help you finish more quickly and to make it more enjoyable.
Accept all compliments today with “Thank you” and a smile instead of brushing off your accomplishments or feeling a need to appear humble.
Share this quote from Amanda Owen, author of The Power of Receiving, with any friends who try to “do it all” and then wonder why they don’t get back what they give: “The only possible match for someone who doesn’t know how to receive is someone who doesn’t know how to give.”
Write down a few things you believe your best friend deserves from her relationships. Now identify in which of your own relationships you’re settling for less and why, and choose one need you’ll assert today instead of settling.
Offer a friend who is struggling financially something of yours (that’s in good condition) that you’re planning to replace soon.
Share something you enjoy with someone in your life.
Think about the greatest gift you’ve ever received. Write below who gave it to you, what it was, why this was meaningful to you, and what you learned from the experience. Now utilize this lesson to give a meaningful gift to someone else.
Give a friend in need a book that helped you, and write a personal inscription to them on the cover page.
Give yourself a push—do something that you know is good for you, but you sometimes struggle to do. (Really, it’s a gift to yourself!)
Give something to someone who you think doesn’t need it, to practice giving without judgment and to reinforce that we are all worthy of receiving.
Do something to give back to your community.
Give a friend credit for an accomplishment or milestone, whether verbally or in writing, with an e-mail, letter, or card.
Give yourself some credit. Make a list of at least three things you’ve done right recently and write for each one reason that it’s something to be proud of.
Say no today instead of agreeing to do something that will deplete you energy or require you to sacrifice something you need to give to yourself.
Receive all criticism with gratitude today, looking for some lesson within it—even if the only lesson is to have a thicker skin and take things less personally.
Do something for someone else that could be considered an inconvenience, and identify one thing you receive from being there for them in this way, even if it’s simply an opportunity to practice acceptance.
Make a small donation on kickstarrter.com, gofundme.com, or another fund-raising site, or donate to a third world entrepreneur on kiva.com. (Even a few dollars counts!)
Think of three recent experiences when you asked for something and were rejected. Write what you asked for, why it was hard to ask, and why you shouldn’t let this discourage you from asking someone else for this in the future. Refer to this whenever you feel nervous to ask for something you want or need.
Give yourself permission to splurge a little
Whenever you feel tempted to complain about something you’re not getting today, do something proactive to address your need instead.
If these challenges have improved your relationships or enriched your life, give someone else the link to check out this book (http://tinybuddha.com/love-book)--or (bonus!)Give them a copy as a gift.
