February
Before all conversations today, think of one way that you’re similar to the person you’re speaking with to help you approach them with empathy.
Ask someone you encounter today, “How are you feeling?” If they respond with “fine,” ask follow-up questions to let them know you truly care to hear if they’re feeling something else.
Instead of treating someone how you want to be treated, ask them how they want to be treated, and do that.
Think about how it shows in your body language and facial expressions when you’re feeling the emotions listed below, and write the physical manifestation next to each emotion. Keep this knowledge in mind as you go about your day so that you may better recognize when someone is feeling something painful. (Of course, everyone is different—but remember, we’re a lot more alike than we often realize!) Stress: Shame: Anger: Fear:
Whenever you get hard on yourself today, comfort yourself with a physical gesture and a few words of compassion, such as, “I’m having a tough time, but I deserve my own love and kindness.” According to self-compassion researcher Kristin Neff, physical touch releases the feel-good hormone oxytocin—even when the touch is your own.
Share a relevant story with a loved one who is struggling in order to show them you can relate, and that they’re not alone in what they’re going through.
Pay attention to what the people around you seem to be feeling, physically or emotionally, and give someone something tangible they might need.
Identify one person, group of people, or type of people you believe doesn’t deserve your compassion. Now try to empathize with why those people may be like they are or may do the things they do. Think of all possible factors that may have contributed—their past struggles, their physical or emotional health, their disadvantages. Write these things below to help you challenge the belief that this person or these people don’t deserve compassion.
When someone says or does something that hurts or offends you, instead of assuming the worst, consider that you misunderstood them and ask, “What was your intention?”
Use Martha Beck’s “reverse engineering” method of developing empathy today. Identify someone you’d like to understand better. Now think of a specific interaction when you had trouble understanding what they were feeling. Imitate their body language and facial expressions, and to the best of your ability repeat their words using the same tone they used. This will allow you to better understand them, as odds are, you’ll feel the same thing they felt.
Instead of beating yourself up for something you feel you could have done better, reward yourself for doing it at all.
Ask someone a creative question to better understand them.
If you discover someone who is hurting in some way, use physical touch to show your empathy and care.
Offer words of compassion to someone who frequently complains instead of avoiding them or judging them for being negative.
Write “hurt people hurt people” on a Band-Aid and stick it somewhere you’ll see often, to remind yourself that the most difficult people are often in the most pain.
Make it a goal to say “I see where you’re coming from” to someone at least once today—and really mean it.
Buy a compassionately made product.
Complete the writing prompts below. Keep these things in mind as you go about your day to help you treat yourself with compassion.
Convey to someone today that you understand their feelings.
Think about someone you know who could use some help, and then ask a mutual friend if they’ll work with you to support that person.
Devote five to twenty minutes to a simple compassion mediation. Start by visualizing someone toward whom you easily feel compassion, and silently repeat the words May you be happy and free from pain and suffering. Now visualize yourself and mentally repeat the same thing. Next, visualize someone toward whom you have neutral feelings while repeating these same well wishes. After that, visualize someone for whom you have trouble feeling compassion, to help extend the goodwill you’ve fostered toward them. End the meditation by extending your well wishes to everyone on the planet, with these words: May all living beings be happy and free from suffering.
Whenever someone upsets you today, instead of snapping at them or acting hurt, ask yourself, What fears may cause them to act as they do?
Let someone off the hook for a mistake or shortcoming that won’t be a big deal in the grand scheme of things.
Identify someone in your life who hasn’t always shown you compassion, and do something compassionate for them.
Deschene, Lori. Tiny Buddha's 365 Tiny Love Challenges (p. 72). HarperCollins. Kindle Edition. Write below one or two things you’ve done recently that you feel bad about. Then list for each one a potential need you may have been trying to meet in order to better understand the valid intentions instead of condemning the misguided actions.
Text someone who you know has been struggling lately, “I’ve been thinking of you, and I’m here if you need me!”
Think of a problem you’ve been obsessing about. Now identify someone else who’s also affected by this problem. Ask them what it’s been like for them so you can better understand and potentially help instead of focusing on yourself and your own feelings.
Leave a compassionate response on a blog post or social media update in which someone expresses sadness, frustration, or any other type of overwhelming emotion.
Tell someone who’s rushing for your benefit “Take your time—there’s no rush!” to help alleviate their anxiety about potentially inconveniencing you.
