January
Help a stranger in need
Ask your newest friends or coworkers when their birthdays are so you can make a note of this for the future. Then be sure to wish them a happy birthday!
Ask a friend or coworker who seems frazzled if you can help with anything.
Focus on one thing at a time today instead of multitasking, as an act of kindness to your overworked brain.
Connect two friends or acquaintances that you believe could help each other, or who might hit it off romantically.
Carry with you one thing that someone else may need so that you can help them out should the opportunity arise.
Write down one to three choices that often compromise your ability to be kind, and for each, one proactive thing you can do today to address that issue.
Today, when someone does something that annoys or inconveniences you, choose to cut them slack instead of giving them
Do one small task to make someone’s life easier.
Write down three things you hope people do and three things you hope they don’t do when speaking to your child (or future child). Remember these things today when you’re speaking to others to help you be kinder.
Tell someone about an act of kindness you recently witnessed, to lift both of your spirits and to potentially inspire future acts of kindness.
Let someone go ahead of you today.
Introduce yourself to a neighbor you’ve never met, or don’t know well.
Keep an eye out for someone who looks stressed or sad—a friend, a coworker, or even a stranger—and say something that might make this person laugh or smile.
Respond kindly to someone who is unkind to you.
Say yes to a request when you’re tempted to say no.
Call or Skype one of your grandparents or another older relative who may enjoy connecting with you and appreciate that you thought of them.
Think about the kindest thing someone ever did for you. Write what happened and how this affected your life, and also identify anyone else who indirectly benefited from this act. List as many people as you can, and how specifically they benefited. Keep this in mind as you go about your day to remind yourself that one act of kindness can help more people than you know.
Do something to make your life easier today.
Smile and say good morning to everyone you encounter when you arrive at work, or wherever you’re going today, to start everyone’s day with positive energy.
Comment on a friend’s or relative’s picture on Facebook: “You look absolutely beautiful,” or e-mail a photo of the two of you together, along with this compliment.
Identify someone you think of as part of “they”—a group of people you see as separate from you—and start a friendly conversation with that person to bridge the gap.
Say something kind to someone you dislike, or do something kind for them.
Ask someone who serves you in some way, “How’s your day going?”
Send an uplifting card to a sick child through a site like www.sendkidstheworld.com, www.cardsforhospitalizedkids.com, or www.hugsandhope.org.
Write down one negative belief you hold about yourself, and then flip it into a positive affirmation that’s kinder. Repeat this affirmation mentally throughout the day.
Contact an old colleague to see what they’ve been up to and ask how they’re enjoying their current job.
Schedule something into your day that will make you laugh or smile.
Think of something important that a loved one did recently—a job interview, a first date, or a milestone event, for example—and get in touch with them to ask how it went.
Make a small sacrifice for someone else.
Clean or beautify a common space in your home, apartment building, or at work, as an act of kindness for everyone who shares that space.

