July
Buy a $5 gift card and carry it in your purse or wallet to give to someone you think would appreciate it. (If you don’t have $5 to spare, look for a coupon online that you can e-mail or print to give to someone who may appreciate it.)
Write down three simple pleasures that make you smile, and then incorporate them into your day.
Contact a loved one who experienced a tremendous loss in the last year to ask how they’re doing. (Even months later, when others may assume they’ve healed, the pain can still feel overwhelming.)
Do something thoughtful for the kindest person you know.
Call or e-mail your oldest friend, just to let them know you are thinking of them.
Share with your significant other (or a loved one) author Gary Chapman’s love languages, from the book The Five Love Languages. These are five different ways a person might like to receive love, including: words of affirmation, acts of service, receiving gifts, quality time, and physical touch. Then ask which one they most appreciate, and do something to give them this kind of love today.
Invite a loved one to join you in an act of kindness
Be kind to a telemarketer who call you today, or anyone who tries to sell you something or asks for a donation, even if you don’t listen for long.
Write a positive review on Yelp for a business you frequent and enjoy
Be patient and understanding with people who serve you, especially if they have a lot of customers to tend to
Smile and nod at another driver at a red light or, if you don’t drive, give up your seat to someone on the train or bus.
End every (nonwork-related) phone conversation today with “I love you,” “I’ll be thinking of you,” or “I always enjoy talking to you!”
Schedule a window of technology-free time into your day, as an act of kindness to yourself. Plan an activity that nourishes you physically, mentally, emotionally, or spiritually.
Make a meal for someone—whether it’s breakfast for your significant other, a sandwich to give a homeless person, or dinner for a friend.
Think of someone who recently made a mistake, and praise them for something they’ve done well to help shift their focus from their shortcomings to their strengths.
Watch or rewatch the video Validation on YouTube: http://tinybuddha.com/validation. Then follow Hugh’s lead by validating everyone you encounter today.
Text someone who you’re planning to see soon: “I can’t wait to see you on (insert day)!”
Include someone who often seems lonely, whether a friend, family member, or coworker, in something you’re planning to do soon.
Instead of beating yourself up over a mistake, write down one thing you learned from it and one reason you deserve to cut yourself some slack. (If you can’t think of a reason, think of what your best friend would say to you.)
Leave a short uplifting note on the windshield of someone’s car—something anyone would appreciate seeing at the end of a long day.
When you’re going to do something for yourself, ask someone else if you can do it for them as well.
Give a warm piece of clothing that you no longer need to a homeless person, or leave it in a donation bin.
Send a thoughtful private message to someone who updates Facebook all the time or sends a lot of chain e-mails. They’re clearly looking for connection.
E-mail someone a picture you know they’d appreciate having.
As an act of kindness to your body, write below one thing you appreciate about each part you usually criticize. (If you feel inclined, you can take it one step further and say these things to your body while looking in a mirror.)
Put something back where it belongs instead of expecting someone else to do it.
Buy something from a small local business (a coffee shop or boutique, for example), and compliment the store owner on something that makes their establishment charming or unique.
Place a bowl of candy on your desk and tell your coworkers to help themselves.
Send an e-mail to someone that starts with, “I want to let you know how you’ve made a difference in my life.” Or say it face-to-face.
Surprise a loved one with something, whether it’s a gift, a good deed, or a last-minute invitation to something fun and exciting.
Leave change near a parking meter, vending machine, or coin-operated washing machine or dryer. If you feel inclined, leave a note that reads: “This one’s on me.”
