June
Share an opinion or piece of feedback, choosing words that are kind, constructive, and helpful.
Be honest with someone about something you need in a relationship. Express this in a way that does not imply the other person is currently doing something wrong.
Make today an excuse-free day and be honest with people about why you want or don’t want to do something. (Be sure to also avoid making excuses to yourself!)
Identify a lie you recently told a loved one, and why you told that lie. Now share this with that person so that you’ll get closer to addressing the underlying issue.
Write all the ways you’ve lied in the past to make yourself look better, why you think you’ve lied about these things, and how this has negatively affected you and your relationships. Remember these things as you go about your day as a reminder to be truthful instead of trying to manipulate perception.
Be honest about something you usually wouldn’t admit.
Be honest with yourself about how you feel right now and embrace the feeling, without trying to make it go away. After a short while, reflect on what this feeling is trying to teach you, and if possible, act on what you’ve learned.
Share a secret with someone you believe to be trustworthy, even something small, to help establish mutual trust.
Make it a goal not to tell a single white lie to anyone today.
Think about a recent time when you were passive-aggressive instead of honestly communicating what frustrated or annoyed you. Write below what happened and any fears or beliefs that may have prevented you from being clear and direct. Then write how being passive-aggressive affected your relationship and prevented you from resolving the issue. Keep these things in mind today as a reminder to avoid passive-aggressive behavior and clearly communicate your thoughts instead.
Thank someone in your life for being honest with you about something, especially if you imagine it was hard for them, to encourage future honesty.
Share your true motivations for something you recently said or did (or didn’t say or do) that was hurtful.
Be honest with yourself about what you most want to change in your life and why you haven’t done this yet. Then identify one thing you can do to work toward this today, and do it.
Be honest about something you don’t know.
Ask a friend or loved one to do something important for you to show them you trust them.
Observe those around you today, and watch for signs that people are good—little words or acts of kindness that show you people are looking out for you and others.
Spend a few minutes in reflection, and identify one way you’ve been betrayed in a past relationship that’s led you to mistrust people. Now write down an affirmation to break this pattern and read it several times throughout the day.
Identify a person you’ve kept in your life who has betrayed you. Now give them a small opportunity to regain your trust, knowing there are no guarantees, and trusting that you can handle whatever happens.
Give everyone the benefit of the doubt today instead of assuming they have poor intentions.
Instead of discussing a frustration or annoyance behind someone’s back, go directly to the source to get it resolved.
Keep a promise to yourself today.
Write everything you’d need to believe about yourself to trust that people truly love you and wouldn’t intentionally hurt you. Then identify one positive thing you can do for yourself to reinforce these beliefs—and do it today.
Do something helpful for someone else without wanting or expecting anything in return, and vocalize this to them to show they can trust you to be there for them, without ulterior motives.
Leave a comment on a blog post, forum post, or social media update where the writer shared their struggles and insights, sharing how their honesty was helpful to you.
Make “Let go of control” your mantra today and repeat this in your head whenever you’re tempted to nag or micromanage someone.
In conversations with others, practice hearing their thoughts and feelings without getting defensive or oversensitive, to teach them it’s safe to be honest with you.
Answer all calls, e-mails, and texts today—even if not right away—to show people that they can trust you to be there for them. If you can’t be there for them because you’re focusing your energy on your own needs, share this information with them.
Identify someone you’ve blamed for something recently, at work or in your personal life. Now be honest with yourself about what you could have done differently, even if it’s something small, and share this with that person.
Lend something to someone to show you trust them with your things.
Commit to doing something for someone in the future so that when you follow through, they will know they can trust you to do what you say you’ll do.
