March
Greet someone with a hug today.
Maintain eye contact during a conversation when you’re tempted to look away.
Tell someone you care about how you feel about them, and why.
Think of a time when someone you love was vulnerable with you—a time when they shared a secret, a struggle, or their honest feelings. Write below why you appreciated this, how it benefited you to learn this about them and be there for them, and how it strengthened your relationship. Keep these things in mind today when you question whether it’s worth letting your guard down and letting others in.
Sit with a loved one in comfortable silence, with the goal of simply being there together.
Choose one thing you enjoy doing that you don’t often share with others. Now invite someone else to experience it with you.
Start a conversation with a stranger.
Share a fear you’ve never shared before with someone who you think could help you overcome it.
Display something in your workspace that represents a part of your authentic self that you may be tempted to keep separate from your “work self” (something not related to religion or politics). This will give your coworkers a chance to get to know you beyond your work persona.
Complete the writing prompt below. Then share this with someone, in real life or online at http://tinybuddha.com/love-forums, to help you work through your shame and break through the fear of how others will perceive this: People would definitely judge me if they knew that I . . .
Update one of your social media pages with your honest feelings about something going on in your life. (If you don’t have any social media pages, e-mail someone to share your feelings.)
Identify one experience from your childhood that taught you to hide your true self—some event that led you to believe that hiding was safest. As you go about your day, recognize when you’re acting on this belief, and remind yourself, I am not that child anymore, and this belief no longer serves me, since it holds me back in life.
Share something that is going on in your life with someone you don’t usually open up to.
Own up to a mistake, flaw, or shortcoming today, allowing others to see that you, too, are human, flawed, and imperfect.
Identify one thing you often say or do to try to win approval from others. Then, make it a goal to not do this today so that you can focus less on what people think of you and more on simply being in their presence.
Watch Brené Brown’s TED talk “The Power of Vulnerability” (http://tinybuddha.com/power-of-vulnerability) and then share the link with someone in your life who you believe could benefit from watching it.
Start your day by listening to a song that always empowers you to be your real self, and set the intention to show up authentically in your relationships.
Write down one to three things you may be tempted to hide from other people, and for each, one reason why this is worth sharing—some way it makes you beautiful, has contributed to the person you’ve become, or may help other people. Read this list to yourself or out loud at every meal today.
Identify one adjective you’d use to describe yourself (not a role you hold, like “mother,” “boyfriend,” or your job title, and not something that’s negative). Now, identify one specific way you could share this with someone in your life today.
Ask someone a personal question about themselves that they can’t answer with yes or no to start an authentic conversation.
Think of one thing you regularly do because you think you’ll better fit in, or at the very least, not stand out, and one thing you’d do if you were being true to yourself. Do the latter at some point today.
Write down one to three beliefs you’d need to let go in order to ask someone else for help, and for each, one fact that disputes it.
Complete this sentence and tell it to someone in your life today: “You may not know this, but you really helped me by . . .”
Share a personal struggle with someone you trust, and ask for their help and advice.
Do something alone today, and smile at the people around you whenever you make eye contact.
Identify someone you’d like to form a deeper relationship with, romantically or platonically, and ask if they’d like to get together, just the two of you.
Complete this sentence: “I’m tired of pretending that . . .” Now identify one specific thing you can do to stop pretending today—and do it.
Share a thought, belief, or opinion that you’re nervous to share, and do so in a public setting, whether it’s in a meeting at work or at a dinner with friends.
Say “I love you” to someone you love but rarely tell.
If you usually wear makeup, snap a makeup-free selfie and text it to a friend. If you don’t usually wear makeup, or if you’d prefer a different challenge, share an embarrassing story, something that you’d find funny if you weren’t taking yourself too seriously.
When you’d like to text or e-mail someone today to keep the exchange easy, call instead; or, even better, say it face-to-face.
