May
Practice active listening today. Whenever someone shares their feelings with you, repeat back to them what you heard, in your own words, to let them know you understand.
Before you share your thoughts and feelings today, take a moment to silently repeat this mantra: “My goal is to be honest, not to control how other people receive my honesty.”
Take a day of silence. Enjoy silent activities, like walking, reading, or listening to music, and focus on the sounds in your environment to strengthen your listening skills. If today is a workday for you, commit to remaining silent for a small window of time, before or after work.
Think about what goes through your mind when you really need to talk but instead of listening, the other person continually interjects with stories and problems of their own. Write below how this makes you feel and keep this in mind today as a reminder to listen fully when other people need an ear instead of making things about you.
Meditate for five to twenty minutes or take a short walk so you can listen to your intuition about whatever is currently causing you stress or pain.
Start a conversation with someone who has a different opinion than you so you can practice listening and understanding another’s point of view when you don’t agree with it. Resist the temptation to argue or debate them.
Do a “needs scavenger hunt” today. Pay attention to those around you and identify three types of people: someone who seems to need recognition, someone who needs encouragement, and someone who needs empathy. Then offer these things to them.
Ask someone “How are you, really?” and then listen without trying to fix things, without any goal other than being there and fully hearing them.
Let someone teach you something instead of needing to be the one who has all the answers.
Whenever the phone rings today, take two deep breaths and smile before answering so you greet the person with mindfulness and joy.
Start a conversation with someone who is long-winded and often takes a while to get to the point, and smile and nod while they’re speaking instead of rushing them.
Think of someone you plan to talk to today. List below any personal biases that might compromise your ability to listen fully, without forming judgments in your head. For each, identify why you think you formed this bias and something you can do or tell yourself to challenge it.
Choose a talk on TED.com on a subject you assume won’t interest you so you can practice listening fully and keeping an open mind. (Bonus! Write down everything you remember after the talk ends to see how well you listened and how much you retained.)
Call someone to ask about their day, and do nothing but listen. Shut off your TV, shut down your computer, put away your knitting or crossword puzzle. Just listen.
Make it a goal not to interrupt anyone today so you can show through your actions that their words are important to you.
Whenever someone shares their thoughts and feelings today, ask a couple follow-up questions to learn more.
Choose something to look for in the people you encounter today to train yourself to pay more attention to others.
Whenever someone talks to you today, plant your feet firmly on the ground and put your hands in your lap so you won’t distract with fidgety energy.
Spend five minutes listening to the sound of your own breath to help calm your mind so you can better listen to others.
Give someone a small gift that you know they’ll like because they mentioned it in a previous conversation.
Spend a little time clearing your mental clutter by writing down everything that’s on your mind so that you can release your worries and be more present in conversations today.
Whenever someone talks to you today, put down your phone or move away from your computer; or, if you can’t talk at that moment, tell them when you’ll be able to give them your full attention.
Ask someone about their day and then e-mail or call them later, recalling specific details from their story to show that you care.
Write one to three things that make it difficult to give people your full attention, and for each, one thing you can do to address that. Consciously choose to do these things today.
Add quality time with a loved one—even if it’s just a half hour over coffee—to your to-do list today.
Tell a friend, “I love that you . . .” and then finish the sentence with something not everyone may notice or appreciate about them.
Pay attention to your body and give it what it needs.
Smile and nod at every street vendor or person you pass to let them know you see them.
Identify someone you haven’t been giving your full attention to lately, and tell them, “I know I’ve been a little distracted in our conversations lately. Sorry about that. You deserve my full attention, and I intend to give it going forward.”
Whenever you talk to someone you know today, pretend you are meeting for the first time, and notice how that allows you to see them with fresh eyes.
Pay attention to someone you usually disregard and then start a conversation with them about something you notice.
