November
Imagine you needed to write a eulogy for your best friend, and identify at least one positive thing you’d say about that person. Share that praise with them today instead of waiting until they’re not here to hear it.
Text or e-mail someone: “I don’t think I ever thanked you for . . .” (Or, if you feel inclined, say it face-to-face.)
Make a toast to someone—alcohol not required—recognizing something they did well recently or something you admire about them.
Thank someone today for an intangible gift—for example, their time, attention, understanding, or support.
E-mail yourself a note of appreciation—for anything. Save it to read whenever you need a reminder of how amazing you are.
Take a picture of yourself wearing or using a gift someone gave you, and text or e-mail it to them with a note of appreciation.
Make a list of traits you find admirable, and look for people who demonstrate these traits throughout your day so you can voice your admiration.
Compliment someone on something you know they take pride in.
Compliment someone standing in a line with you, whether it’s at a coffee shop, the post office, or the grocery store.
Give someone a small gift of appreciation for something they recently did for you.
Write down five compliments to yourself and read the list at every meal today.
Add a note of appreciation to the end of a work or personal e-mail. If you’re feeling ambitious, add a note of appreciation to the end of all e-mails today.
Compliment a parent for doing their part to create a better world by raising their children well.
Hang something in your home or workspace that reminds you to feel and express gratitude for the people in your life.
Appreciate what someone has done for you instead of complaining about what they haven’t done—and (bonus!) tell them why you’re grateful.
Whenever you talk to someone today, think of something you appreciate or admire about the person before speaking.
Send someone a thank-you e-card for something that wouldn’t ordinarily warrant a card—like their attention when you needed to vent, or the ride they gave you to work.
Jot down any praise or compliments others offer you so you’ll have a growing list of all the things others most appreciate about you.
Ask someone what they most appreciate about themselves to help them foster a deeper sense of self-gratitude. (If they demur, push them a little, showing the value of the exercise.)
Invite someone in your life to be your gratitude partner—for the day, or for longer. E-mail them five things you’re grateful for, and ask them to do the same.
Tell someone the most important thing you’ve learned from him or her, and thank this person for that gift.
Think of something you use every day and can’t imagine living without. Now write a short e-mail to the manufacturer thanking them for this, or leave a short note of appreciation on their Facebook page.
Replace a critical thought about someone with a grateful thought.
Write a short thank-you note to leave in your mailbox for your mail carrier.
Leave a short, anonymous note of appreciation in a public place where someone who needs it might find it. For example, it could read: “You make the world a better place, and we thank you for it.”
Identify someone who provided you with excellent customer service, and write a short letter to their manager praising their efforts.
Write a letter to your younger self, thanking him or her for any wise decisions that led you to where you are today. If you’re not pleased with where your decisions have led you, thank your younger self for being brave enough to take chances, even if they didn’t pan out as you’d hoped they would.
Go for a short walk with the intention of complimenting three people you see, whether they’re neighbors, passersby, or people working.
Before a meal today, thank everyone whose efforts brought that food to your table, from the farmers to the distributors to the grocery store employees.
Thank a loved one for something you usually take for granted.
