October
Tell someone who recently experienced a great hardship or tragedy, “I’m here for you if you ever want to talk—and I’m here for you if you don’t.”
Offer practical support to someone who is overwhelmed, stressed, or struggling with some type of hardship.
Reach out to a loved one who recently experienced a failure or setback to encourage them to keep going.
Identify one supportive phrase you wish you had heard more growing up. Every time you pass by a mirror today, look at yourself and say this.
Help a loved one get new clients by promoting their business or service with a mass e-mail or social media update.
Share an encouraging YouTube video with a friend who could benefit from a virtual pep talk.
Offer to buy lunch for a friend who is struggling financially. If you are struggling financially, offer to buy them a coffee or soda instead.
When you find yourself getting caught up in your head, thinking only about yourself and everything you have to do, stop and ask someone else how they’re doing.
Write something supportive or encouraging on a blog post, forum post, or social media update.
Send an uplifting card or e-card to someone who could use it.
Ask someone how they’re doing with their progress towards one of their goals, and if there’s anything you can do to help.
Write down three ways you’ve made personal or professional progress recently. Read this several times throughout the day to encourage yourself to keep working toward your goals.
Google a cause that interests you, and identify one small (or large) way that you could offer your support.
Find an online or offline support group that might be helpful to a friend. Then e-mail them the link with a note explaining how this could help them reach their goal or better deal with their current challenge.
Identify an area where a friend or your significant other has made tremendous growth, and let them know how and why this has inspired you.
Tell someone in your life about the potential you see in them, personally or professionally.
Offer someone something tangible or intangible that may support their growth or help them reach one of their goals.
Tell someone one reason you’re proud of yourself, both to vocally offer yourself encouragement and to model for that person what this looks like.
Write below your greatest accomplishment ever (even if it isn’t recent), one person whose support was instrumental in achieving that goal, and how this made a difference in your life. Get in touch with that person today, even if through a brief e-mail, to share what their support meant to you.
Write the words You did a great job on this! On a sticky note, and leave it near something did well.
Any time you’re tempted to nag someone today, offer a few words of praise or encouragement instead.
Encourage someone to do something you know they want to do, and tell them you believe in them.
Commend one of your coworkers to your/their boss to support their professional growth.
Write a recommendation for someone on LinkedIn or offer to write a testimonial for their product or service.
Reinforce someone’s skills or strengths by telling them: “You’re one of the best ____________ I know.”
Share an image with an encouraging quote on one of your social media pages. If you don’t have any social media pages, e-mail one of these images to a friend who might appreciate it.
Keep an eye out for someone who seems to go above and beyond in their job, and let them know you noticed and you admire them for it.
Tell a street artist, musician, or performer that they’re talented and you think they have a great future ahead of them.
Encourage a busy friend to step away from their work for a while and do something relaxing or enjoyable. (Bonus: join in, if you feel like it!)
Think about an area of your life where you try your hardest but sometimes feel you’re falling short. Recall all the critical things you’ve said to yourself, and think about what you’d tell a friend if you knew they were being hard on themselves in this way. Now complete the writing prompt below so you’ll have this for encouragement whenever you need a reminder that you’re doing the best you can.
Identify a friend who could benefit from learning one of your skills, and offer to teach it to them (or teach them enough about it to get them started).

