September
Think of something a friend achieved and what you admire or envy about this. Now use this as inspiration; identify a goal you’re passionate or excited about and take one tiny step toward this today. (Bonus—share with your friend how they’ve inspired you.)
Identify someone who has done something you’d like to do, and then e-mail that person for advice instead of comparing and despairing.
Share this quote on one of your social media pages, or write it in your e-mail signature: “The reason we struggle with insecurity is because we compare our behind-the-scenes with everyone else’s highlight reel.” ~Steve Furtick
Write down three ways you’re fortunate, and read this list before speaking with anyone you envy or think is better than you today.
Identify a friend who may feel “behind” in life, and then share something you admire or respect about where they are right now.
Identify a friend or colleague who shares similar goals as you, and share something useful you’ve learned that will help them instead of trying to get ahead of them.
Publicly congratulate someone you see as a competitor for an achievement.
Write down how you believe our society defines “winning” in life, and then write down how you personally define success. Whenever you feel bad about yourself today because someone else seems closer to the first definition, remind yourself of the second.
Let someone else pass you on the road today instead of battling to stay ahead. If you don’t drive, let someone else go ahead of you during your commute.
Make it a goal not to one-up anyone today.
Whenever you’re tempted to brag today—in person or on your social media pages—ask yourself if you’re looking to feel worthy or significant and think about what you’re hoping to hear from the other person. Then say that thing to yourself instead of bragging.
Recognize when you’re tempted to “knock someone down a peg” because they seem arrogant and boastful. Instead, empathize with their desire to feel significant and build them up with a few words of praise, support, or encouragement.
Keep track of tiny victories today to keep you focused on your own accomplishments, however small. (Bonus: Ask a friend or two to share their most recent tiny victories so they can reap the benefits of this challenge, as well.)
Whenever you compare yourself to someone who seems to have it worse than you (a downward comparison) and feel better about yourself as a result, remember that person is likely comparing themselves to you (an upward comparison) and, consequently, feeling bad about themselves. Then compliment that person on something to help them remember they aren’t “less than” because of their struggle.
Before engaging with others, spend two minutes standing with your back straightened, your hands on your hips, and your chin lifted. According to psychologist and Harvard Business School professor Amy Cuddy, “power posing” can create a 20 percent increase in testosterone and a 25 percent decrease in the stress hormone cortisol, resulting in an increased feeling of confidence. Take this energy into your actions to remind you that you’re no less worthy than anyone else.
Instead of trying to be better than others, identify one way you can be better today than you were yesterday—and act on it.
Write down three of your top strengths. If you’re tempted to compare yourself with someone else today, refer to this list as a reminder that we all have our own strengths and weaknesses.
Compliment someone on a trait they possess that you would like to cultivate.
Avoid something that usually triggers comparisons all day today.
Identify a relationship that you frequently compare unfavorably to someone else’s relationship (for example, someone else’s relationship with their husband or mother). Now shift your focus back to your own relationship and identify one tiny thing you could do to strengthen it.
Invite someone to do something competitive so you can practice releasing your attachment to winning and being a gracious winner or loser.
In conversations today, give up the need to be right and to prove others wrong.
Whenever you find yourself keeping score today, thinking you’ve done or given more than someone else, stop and recognize something the other person has done—and (bonus!) thank them.
Thank someone who helped you achieve a goal recently in order to communicate your gratitude, and to remind both them and yourself that we are all interconnected, and we can all help and support each other.
Help someone else shine today to practice lifting others up without feeling threatened or tempted to compete.
Write below what you think healthy competition and unhealthy competition look like, and what you can do or tell yourself when you’re tempted to compete in an unhealthy way. Utilize this knowledge today if you catch yourself competing in a way that will be detrimental to you, your loved ones, or your relationships.
Create a win/win situation with someone today instead of trying to win at someone else’s expense.
Make eye contact and smile at a homeless person today to let them know (and to remind yourself) that they are not beneath you.
Identify one person you often compare unfavorably to someone in your past. Now identify one reason you’re grateful for this relationship as it is, and share this with them.
Identify one way you can work in cooperation with a competitor or someone who is striving toward a similar goal. Contact this person today to propose helping and supporting each other in this way.

